Q.2 Describe the categorization of operators in javaScript based on their functionality. Provide examples for each category.
Answer-
There are different types of JavaScript operators:
Arithmetic Operators
Assignment Operators
Comparison Operators
String Operators
Logical Operators
Bitwise Operators
Ternary Operators
Typeof Operators

1.  JavaScript Arithmetic Operators
    Arithmetic Operators are used to perform arithmetic on numbers.
    There are some operators which comes under the category of arithmetic operators

Addition operator(+) —->
Examples: let x = 5, y = 10;

-     Adds two numeric operands.
  let z = x + y; //performs addition and returns 15

*     Subtract right operand from left operand
  z = y - x; //performs subtraction and returns 5

-     Multiply two numeric operands.
-     z = x * y; //performs multiplication and returns 50

/ Divide left operand by right operand.
z = y / x; //performs division and returns 2

% Modulus operator. Returns remainder of two operands.
z = x % 2; //returns division remainder 1

let x = 5;

++ Increment operator. Increase operand value by one.
x++; //post-increment, x will be 5 here and 6 in the next line

++x; //pre-increment, x will be 7 here

-- Decrement operator. Decrease value by one.
x--; //post-decrement, x will be 7 here and 6 in the next line

--x; //pre-decrement, x will be 5 here

2.Assignment Operators-JavaScript provides the assignment operators to assign values to variables with less key strokes.

Assignment operators Description
= Assigns right operand value to the left operand.
+= Sums up left and right operand values and assigns the result to the left operand.
-= Subtract right operand value from the left operand value and assigns the result to the left operand.
\*= Multiply left and right operand values and assigns the result to the left operand.
/= Divide left operand value by right operand value and assign the result to the left operand.
%= Get the modulus of left operand divide by right operand and assign resulted modulus to the left operand.

let x = 5, y = 10, z = 15;

x = y; //x would be 10

x += 1; //x would be 6

x -= 1; //x would be 4

x \*= 5; //x would be 25

x /= 5; //x would be 1

x %= 2; //x would be 1

3.Comparison Operators-JavaScript provides comparison operators that compare two operands and return a boolean value true or false.

Operators Description
== Compares the equality of two operands without considering type.
=== Compares equality of two operands with type.
!= Compares inequality of two operands.

>                   Returns a boolean value true if the left-side value is greater than the right-side value; otherwise, returns false.
>
> < Returns a boolean value true if the left-side value is less than the right-side value; otherwise, returns false.
> = Returns a boolean value true if the left-side value is greater than or equal to the right-side value; otherwise, returns false.
> <= Returns a boolean value true if the left-side value is less than or equal to the right-side value; otherwise, returns false.
>
> The following example demonstrates the comparison operators.

Example: JavaScript Comparison Operators
let a = 5, b = 10, c = "5";
let x = a;

a == c; // returns true

a === c; // returns false

a == x; // returns true

a != b; // returns true

a > b; // returns false

a < b; // returns true

a >= b; // returns false

a <= b; // returns true

4.String Operators-JavaScript String Operators are used to manipulate and perform operations on strings. There are two operators which are used to modify strings in JavaScript. These operators help us to join one string to another string.

Type of JavaScript String Operators--

1.Concatenate Operator- Concatenate Operator in JavaScript combines strings using the ‘+’ operator and creates a new string that includes the contents of the original strings in which Concatenate string1 and string2, ensuring the first character of string2 immediately follows the last character of string1.
Example: In this example, we are Concatenating str1 and str2 using the ‘+’ operator, the result variable holds the string “GeeksforGeeks”.
let str1 = "Geeks";
let str2 = "forGeeks";
let result = (str1 + str2);
console.log(result);
Output--GeeksforGeeks

2.Concatenate Assignment Operator-In this, we perform a concatenation assignment by using the ‘+=’ operator to add the value of a variable or string to an existing string variable.
Example: In this example, The str1 variable is concatenated with str2 using +=. After the operation, str1 becomes “GeeksforGeeks”,
let str1 = "Geeks";
let str2 = "forGeeks";
str1 += str2;  
console.log(str1);
Output--
GeeksforGeeks

5.Logical Operators-In JavaScript, the logical operators are used to combine two or more conditions. JavaScript provides the following logical operators.

Operator Description
&& && is known as AND operator. It checks whether two operands are non-zero or not (0, false, undefined, null or "" are considered as zero). It returns 1 if they are non-zero; otherwise, returns 0.
|| || is known as OR operator. It checks whether any one of the two operands is non-zero or not (0, false, undefined, null or "" is considered as zero). It returns 1 if any one of of them is non-zero; otherwise, returns 0.
! ! is known as NOT operator. It reverses the boolean result of the operand (or condition). !false returns true, and !true returns false.

Example: Logical Operators
let a = 5, b = 10;

(a != b) && (a < b); // returns true

(a > b) || (a == b); // returns false

(a < b) || (a == b); // returns true

!(a < b); // returns false

!(a > b); // returns true

6.Bitwise operators--JavaScript uses 32 bits Bitwise operands. A number is stored as a 64-bit floating-point number but the bit-wise operation is performed on a 32-bit binary number i.e. to perform a bit-operation JavaScript converts the number into a 32-bit binary number (signed) and performs the operation and converts back the result to a 64-bit number.

Operator Name Description
& AND Sets each bit to 1 if both bits are 1
| OR Sets each bit to 1 if one of two bits is 1
^ XOR Sets each bit to 1 if only one of two bits is 1
~ NOT Inverts all the bits
<< Zero fill left shift Shifts left by pushing zeros in from the right and let the leftmost bits fall off

> >               Signed     right shift	Shifts right by pushing copies of the leftmost bit in from the left, and let the rightmost bits fall off
> >
> > >         	Zero       fill right shift	Shifts right by pushing zeros in from the left, and let the rightmost bits fall off

let a = 6;
let b = 1;

// AND Operation
console.log("A & B = " + (a & b));

// OR operation
console.log("A | B = " + (a | b));

// NOT operation
console.log("~A = " + (~a));

// Sign Propagating Right Shift
console.log("A >> B = " + (a >> b));

// Zero Fill Right Shift
console.log("A >>> B = " + (a >>> b));

// Left Shift
console.log("A << B = " + (a << b));
Output:

A & B = 0
A | B = 7
~A = -7
A >> B = 3
A >>> B = 3
A << B = 12

7.Ternary Operator-The “Question mark” or “conditional” operator in JavaScript is a ternary operator that has three operands. It is the simplified operator of if/else.
Syntax:
condition ? value if true : value if false
condition: Expression to be evaluated which returns a boolean value.
value if true: Value to be executed if the condition results in a true state.
value if false: Value to be executed if the condition results in a false state.

Examples:

Input: let result = (10 > 0) ? true : false;
Output: true
Input: let message = (20 > 15) ? "Yes" : "No";
Output: Yes

8.Typeof Operators-In JavaScript, the typeof operator returns the data type of its operand in the form of a string. The operand can be any object, function, or variable.

Syntax:

typeof operand OR typeof (operand)

Example: This example checks the typeof of a string, number, and undefined object and returns the value in the console.

// "string"
console.log(typeof 'mukul')

// "number"
console.log(typeof 25)

// "undefined"
console.log(typeof variable)
Output:

string
number
undefined
