Q.3- Differentiate between unary, binary and ternary operators in Javascript. Give examples of each.
Answer-Difference between unary binary and ternery operators--

unary operators-- unary operaors require only one operands. unary operators are ++,--,+ ,-, \*,/,%.
Example= type of operator is need only one operand to perform. it shows which kind of the variable is
typeof "hello";

OUTPUT is string.

Binary operators --Binary operators require 2 operands to perform. Binary operators are <,<=,>,>=,==,!=,&,>>,<<,=,^,=,+=,-=,/=,\*=,%=.
Example = if(operand1==operand2)
{//operation expression}

ternary operators-- ternary operators require 3 operands to perform. Ternary operator ?:
for example= if(age>=18)?true:false;

Q4. Discuss the precedence and associativity of operators in JavaScript. Why is understanding these concepts important?
Answer= In JavaScript, operator precedence determines how operators are parsed concerning each other. Operators with higher precedence become the operands of operators with lower precedence. The order of evaluation of operators is determined by their precedence level. If two operators have the same precedence level, then the order of evaluation is determined by their associativity. Left-associativity (left-to-right) means that it is interpreted as (a OP1 b) OP2 c, while right-associativity (right-to-left) means it is interpreted as a OP1 (b OP2 c) 1.

It is important to understand these concepts because they help in writing correct and efficient code. If the order of evaluation of operators is not taken into account, it can lead to unexpected results. For example, consider the expression 3 + 4 \* 5. If we evaluate this expression from left to right, we get 35. However, if we evaluate it according to operator precedence, we get 23. This is because the multiplication operator has higher precedence than the addition operator 1.

Here is a table of operator precedence in JavaScript, from highest to lowest:

       Table

Operator Description
() Grouping
. Member Access
[] Computed Member Access
new Object Creation
++ -- Postfix Increment/Decrement
++ -- Prefix Increment/Decrement
! ~ + - Unary Operators
typeof Unary Operators
void Unary Operators
delete Unary Operators

- / % Multiplicative Operators

* -                   Additive Operators
    << >> >>> Bitwise Shift Operators
    < <= > >= Relational Operators
    !== Relational Operators
    == != === Equality Operators
    & Bitwise AND ,
    ^ Bitwise XOR
    && Logical AND
    ? : Conditional Operator
    = Assignment Operator
    , Comma Operator
